I am Vincent Van Gogh, born in 1853 in Zundert
in the southern Netherlands. I am one of the
most well-known post-Impressionist painters,
although I was not widely appreciated in my
lifetime.
In 1869, I took my first job, working in the
Hague branch of an international art dealing
firm. I began to write to my younger brother
Theo, a correspondence which continued for
the rest of my life.
My job took me to London and Paris, but I
was not interested in the work and was dismissed
in 1876. I briefly became a teacher in England,
and then, deeply interested in Christianity,
I become a preacher in a mining community
in southern Belgium.
In 1880, at the age of 27, I decided to become
an artist. I moved around, teaching myself
to draw and paint and receiving financial
support from Theo. In 1886, I joined Theo
in Paris, and met many artists including Degas,
Lautrec, Pissarro, and Gauguin, with whom
I became friends. My style changed significantly
under the influence of Impressionism, becoming
lighter and brighter. I painted many self-portraits
in this period.
In 1888, I moved to Provence in southern France,
where I painted my famous series 'Sunflowers'.
I invited Gauguin to join me, but we soon
began to quarrel and one night, I threatened
Gauguin with a razor. Deeply remorseful, I
then cut off part of my own ear.
This was the first serious sign of the mental
health problems that were to afflict me for
the rest of my life. I spent time in psychiatric
hospitals and swung between periods of inertia,
depression and incredibly concentrated artistic
activity, my work reflecting the intense colors
and strong light of the countryside around
me.
In 1890, again suffering from depression,
I shot myself and died two days later. Normality
is a paved road: It is comfortable to walk,
but no flowers grow on it. In my life I created
many roads and I wish it led many big hearts
to new worlds.